# Analysis and forecast of stock indices using RNNs

The scope of this project is to analyse and to forecast the trend of Dow Jones Industrial Average, SMI, BEL 20 and BET stock market indices. The chosen period for this analysis is 01.02.2012-31.01.2020. In this project 2 types of models are used, LSTM and GRU. These models have the ability to take into account long-term dependencies, which make them adequate for time sequence modelling. The training set contains data from 01.02.2012 until 31.12.2018 and the train set from 01.01.2019 up until 31.01.2020. The dinamic forecasts use sequences with updated after 15 days forecasted. In order to observe the accuracy, the forecasts are compared with the real values in the testing set. 

## Intro

For the analysis, the stock closing prices are taken from Investing and afterwards are transformed in yields in order to have the same scale for all the stock indices. Having the same scale can help us identify easier the outliers and to make comparisons between the indices. 

For the estimation of the LSTM and GRU models and for the trend forecast the closing prices are normalised. Exploring a multitude of values for the hyperparameters, the best LSTM model and the best GRU model are determined based on their mean squared error (MSE). 

The sequences contain 60 observations and the forecasts are generated on time period of 15 days until the sequence update and the generation of a new forecast. In this paper, it is also searched if the best forecasts are generated by the model with lowest MSE. 
